Casey Trout
Renaissance
1.	This belief stresses education, intellect, and individualism. The emphasis is on the unique and creative personality. Focus on human behavior and emotions. Humanism
2.	This man is the called the father of humanism. He also wrote Love Letters to Laura. Petrarch
3.	This statue, created by Donatello, focused on the beauty of the male body and was unique from Middle Age art in that it applied the use of perspective. David
4.	This fresco, painted by Raphael, focused on the Cult of Knowledge. It applied perspective, individualism, and classicism. Apparent were great scientists and philosophers of the Classical era in addition to some of the Renaissance. School of Athens
5.	Written by Niccolo Machiavelli, this work is considered the handbook of modern political science. It was written for the Medici family and revolutionized politics by describing the methods to obtain and maintain power. The Prince
6.	Other possible questions: Platonic Academy, other artwork, Northern Renaissance works & artists, beliefs

New Monarchies
1.	This King received the title “Defender of the Faith” which he maintained even after breaking from the Catholic Church to establish the Anglican Church. Henry VIII
2.	This act was passed by Henry VIII in order to establish the Church of England, giving Henry the opportunity to divorce Catherine of Aragon and marry the lady-in-waiting Anne Boleyn. Act of Supremacy
3.	Henry VII established this court in order to try nobles without a jury. Star Chamber Court
4.	This French monarch held the nickname “The Spider King”. He signed the Peace of the Merchants with the nobles, alienating them and eventually consolidating his power through taking many nobles’ land. Louis XI
5.	Under these Spanish monarchs the Hermandades was established, which functioned similarly to the Star Chamber Court. The Spanish Inquisition also began under their authority. Ferdinand and Isabella
6.	Other topics: Charles VI

Absolutism
1.	This notion, advocated by Absolutist rulers, declares that God has granted the monarch the right to rule. Divine Right
2.	Established under Cardinal Richelieu, these informants alerted the monarch when his authority was being questioned by others. They were also used under Louis XIV, who granted them the power to appoint local magistrates and police. Intendants
3.	This was the last major religious war between Catholics and Protestants. France entered the war on the side of the Protestants. Thirty Years War
4.	This was an attempt by the nobles to kill a 5-year-old Louis XIV which ultimately failed, leading to Louis’s lifelong distaste of the nobility. Fronde
5.	This English monarch wrote the True Law of Free Monarchy to suggest the divine nature of the King. James I
6.	Other topics: Bishop Bousset, Versailles, Colbertism, Nobles of Sword/Robe, Edict of Nantes, Charles I, Petition of Rights

Enlightenment
1.	This belief, which formed the foundation of the Enlightenment, proposed that natural processes can explain most. Natural Law
2.	This type of economy is defined by a lack of market regulation. Laissez-faire
3.	This French philosophe wrote Sprit of the Laws, which put forth the notion of the Separation of Powers under government into the executive, legislative, and judicial branches. Montesquieu
4.	Rousseau argued that the best form of government is a commonwealth (democracy) in which the people gave their natural rights to each other and fused their wills into a combined general will, or agreement among the people. Social Contract
5.	This economist wrote the Wealth of Nations, in which he argued that the source of a nation’s true wealth is in its production and consumption of goods. He also advocated for the Invisible Hand, in which the market would regulate itself, and a laissez-faire economy. Adam Smith
6.	Other topics: Thomas Hobbes, John Locke, constitutional monarchy, tabula rosa, two treatises on government, Voltaire, Candide, Diderot, Masonism, Enlightened Despots, culture/art of enlightenment (Rococo), Deism
The French Revolution
1.	This group in the Estates General constituted 1% of membership, yet was exempt from taxes and owned 10% of French land. Church
2.	Under this law peasants still had to pay rent to a local lord even though he owned his land. Eminent Domain
3.	This man wrote What is the Third Estate in which he argued that the third estate was everything, yet has had no representation in the political order. Abbey Sieyes
4.	These laws, passed under the National Assembly, declared that the tax exempt status of nobles was abolished, all positions of authority were deemed available to all citizens without distinction of birth, church tithes were abolished, and feudal dues were abolished. August Decrees
5.	This bourgeoisie, Jacobin leader dominated the Republic and took control of France. Robespierre
6.	Other topics: Estates General, nobility, bourgeoisie, sansculottes, peasants, banalities, Louis XVI, Marie Antoinette, Oath of the Tennis Courts, National Assembly, Mirabeu, liberty equality fraternity, Storming of the Bastille, Great Fear, Declaration of the Rights of Man, The Women’s Revolt, Civil Constitution of the Clergy, Constitution of 1791, Brunswick Manifesto, Storming of the Tuileries, National Convention, Republic of Virtue, Law of Maximum, Law of Ventose, equality bread, new calendar, deism, reign of terror, thermidorian reaction, Convention of 1795 (Directory), Coup d’etat of Brumaire
Other topics: Reformation, Age of Discovery, English/Puritan Revolution, Dutch Golden Age, Scientific Revolution, Eastern Europe (Peter the Great, Rise of Prussia, Three Aging Empires), Napolean, Congress of Vienna – 1815, Romanticism, 1848 Revolutions, Age of Nation States, 1st Industrial Revolution, 19th Century Social History, World War 1, Russian Revolution, Age of Anxiety, WW2/Post-WW2 Europe, Fall of the USSR
